we received a call for a structure fire
at about 11:30 in the evening we
responded with our task force 50 engine
44 and engine 55 and battalion two when
we got on scene of The Salvation Army
thrift store we found a large two-story
commercial structure with fire showing
from windows in the rear my job as the
task force commander was to control and
implement a strategy that would allow my
engine company to go it into the
structure once we get inside obviously
the engine company can make their
aggressive attack to the seat of the
fire and put water on the fire while my
truck company is a doing forcible entry
they're also throwing ladders to the
structures so that we can get to the
roof
and accomplish our task which was
ventilation
in the beginning I felt that the fire
was being confined to the rear portion
of the structure but little did I know
that the fire had weakened the main
structure firefighters working outside
of the building were unaware of the
growing danger facing the men inside the
structure once I knew that the roof was
starting to collapse I knew it was
inevitable that we had to get off the
roof as quickly as possible
we made a scream to get off the roof and
at that we all turned and made haste to
our parapet wall which was the closest
exit for us
I literally leapt for work through the
smoke to where I hopefully thought the
parapet was as we came down the ladder I
heard someone screaming someone's got to
be dead someone's dead the fire had got
into this appliance space into the Attic
and burned the Arts trust soul Valley
that had pulled away from the wall and
that eventually was like a domino effect
there was a backdraft inside the
building which is an explosion if you
will of the combustible gases carbon
monoxide that was built up inside the
building and it flashed over causing
maybe some structural failure inside and
I believe it drove the ceiling down on
the on the second floor or wherever they
were at inside they're trapping two
companies of firefighters with the
collapse of the building but it started
out as a routine fire now it became a
race to save the lives of eight
firefighters trapped inside a deadly
Inferno it was seen through a window
that had bars one of our officers in the
back saw that right off the bat got a
rotary saw had those windows cut and
they effected that rescue of those
firefighters out of that window
basically with fire leaping right at the
vest and that's where the burns minor
burns if you will came to those
firefighters now just felt like an
earthquake the whole building shook and
the roof just came in and after that we
started trying to find a way out and we
couldn't go back the way we came in
because the whole real the group had
come down and so there was no more
accident that way so we started looking
to the window but the window was barred
we were yelling downwards flashing our
lives through the bar is trying to get
someone's attention we're a highly
they're screaming at the guy and because
the fire had come down and just burned
our line and we ran out of water it is
hot in there we can't get out I don't I
didn't think we were gonna get out at
all once we got the fire out we were
able to go into heavy streams to put a
large amount of water on the fire and
within an hour to the hour 50 minutes
the fire was knocked down all survived
apparatus operator Morgan was the most
serious injured was second third degree
burns to his ears and all I believe
seven firemen were transported with
burns lacerations and potential neck
injury from the building collapse
firefighters are role models in the
community I think that they are looked
up to by all all portions of the
community from the smallest child to the
elderly and as people in the community
that you can ultimately trust with your
life